<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 id="c11">
				<span class="h2line1">XI</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="h2line2">DUARE</span>
			</h2>
			<p>I got little sleep that night. My officers were constantly coming to me with reports. From these I learned, what was of the greatest importance to me, the temper of the crew. None was averse to taking the <i>Sovong</i>, but there was a divergence of opinion as to what we should do thereafter. A few wanted to be landed on Thoran soil, so that they could make their way back to their homes; the majority was enthusiastic about plundering merchant ships; the idea of exploring the unknown waters of Amtor filled most of them with fear; some were averse to restoring the Vepajan prisoners to their own country; and there was an active and extremely vocal minority that insisted that the command of the vessel should be placed in the hands of Thorans. In this I could see the hand of Kodj even before they told me that the suggestion had come from the coterie that formed his following.</p>
			<p>“But there are fully a hundred,” said Gamfor, “upon whose loyalty you may depend. These have accepted you as their leader, and they will follow you and obey your commands.”</p>
			<p>“Arm these,” I directed, “and place all others below deck until after we have taken the <i>Sovong</i>. How about the klangan? They took no part in the mutiny. Are they for us or against us?”</p>
			<p>Kiron laughed. “They received no orders one way or the other,” he explained. “They have no initiative. Unless they are motivated by such primitive instincts as hunger, love, or hate, they do nothing without orders from a superior.”</p>
			<p>“And they don’t care who their master is,” interjected Zog. “They serve loyally enough until their master dies, or sells them, or gives them away, or is overthrown; then they transfer the same loyalty to a new master.”</p>
			<p>“They have been told that you are their new master,” said Kamlot, “and they will obey you.”</p>
			<p>As there were only five of the birdmen aboard the <i>Sofal</i>, I had not been greatly exercised about their stand; but I was glad to learn that they would not be antagonistic.</p>
			<p>At the twentieth hour I ordered the hundred upon whom we could depend assembled and held in the lower deck house, the others having all been confined below earlier in the night, in the accomplishment of which a second mutiny was averted only by the fact that all the men had been previously disarmed except the loyal Soldiers of Liberty.</p>
			<p>All during the night we had been gradually gaining upon the unsuspecting <i>Sovong</i> until now we were scarcely a hundred yards astern of her, slightly aport. Across our starboard bow I could see her looming darkly in the mysterious nocturnal glow of the moonless Amtorian night, her lanterns white and colored points of light, her watch dimly visible upon her decks.</p>
			<p>Closer and closer the <i>Sofal</i> crept toward her prey. A Soldier of Liberty, who had once been an officer in the Thoran navy, was at the wheel; no one was on deck but the members of the watch; in the lower deck house a hundred men were huddled waiting for the command to board; I stood beside Honan in the chart room (he was to command the <i>Sofal</i> while I led the boarding party), my eyes upon the strange Amtorian chronometer. I spoke a word to him and he moved a lever. The <i>Sofal</i> crept a little closer to the <i>Sovong</i>. Then Honan whispered an order to the helmsman and we closed in upon our prey.</p>
			<p>I hastened down the companionway to the main deck and gave the signal to Kamlot standing in the doorway of the deck house. The two ships were close now and almost abreast. The sea was calm; only a gentle swell raised and lowered the softly gliding ships. Now we were so close that a man could step across the intervening space from the deck of one ship to that of the other.</p>
			<p>The officer of the watch aboard the <i>Sovong</i> hailed us. “What are you about?” he demanded. “Sheer off, there!”</p>
			<p>For answer I ran across the deck of the <i>Sofal</i> and leaped aboard the other ship, a hundred silent men following in my wake. There was no shouting and little noise—only the shuffling of sandalled feet and the subdued clank of arms.</p>
			<p>Behind us the grappling hooks were thrown over the rail of the <i>Sovong</i>. Every man had been instructed as to the part he was to play. Leaving Kamlot in command on the main deck, I ran to the tower deck with a dozen men, while Kiron led a score of fighting men to the second deck where most of the officers were quartered.</p>
			<p>Before the officer of the watch could gather his scattered wits, I had him covered with a pistol. “Keep quiet,” I whispered, “and you will not be harmed.” My plan was to take as many of them as possible before a general alarm could be sounded and thus minimize the necessity for bloodshed; therefore, the need for silence. I turned him over to one of my men after disarming him; and then I sought the captain, while two of my detachment attended to the helmsman.</p>
			<p>I found the officer for whom I sought reaching for his weapons. He had been awakened by the unavoidable noise of the boarding party, and, suspecting that something was amiss, had seized his weapons as he arose and uncovered the lights in his cabin.</p>
			<p>I was upon him as he raised his pistol, and struck it from his hand before he could fire; but he stepped back with his sword on guard, and thus we stood facing one another for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Surrender,” I told him, “and you will not be harmed.”</p>
			<p>“Who are you?” he demanded, “and where did you come from?”</p>
			<p>“I was a prisoner on board the <i>Sofal</i>,” I replied, “but now I command her. If you wish to avoid bloodshed, come out on deck with me and give the command to surrender.”</p>
			<p>“And then what?” he demanded. “Why have you boarded us if not to kill?”</p>
			<p>“To take off provisions, weapons, and the Vepajan prisoners,” I explained.</p>
			<p>Suddenly the hissing staccato of pistol fire came up to us from the deck below.</p>
			<p>“I thought there was to be no killing!” he snapped.</p>
			<p>“If you want to stop it, get out there and give the command to surrender,” I replied.</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe you,” he cried. “It’s a trick,” and he came at me with his sword.</p>
			<p>I did not wish to shoot him down in cold blood, and so I met his attack with my own blade. The advantage was on his side in the matter of skill, for I had not yet fully accustomed myself to the use of the Amtorian sword; but I had an advantage in strength and reach and in some tricks of German swordplay that I had learned while I was in Germany.</p>
			<p>The Amtorian sword is primarily a cutting weapon, its weight near the tip making it particularly effective for this method of attack, though it lessens its effectiveness in parrying thrusts, rendering it a rather sluggish defensive weapon. I therefore found myself facing a savage cutting attack against which I had difficulty in defending myself. The officer was an active man and skillful with the sword. Being experienced, it did not take him long to discover I was a novice, with the result that he pressed his advantage viciously, so that I soon regretted my magnanimity in not resorting to my pistol before the encounter began; but it was too late now—the fellow kept me so busy that I had no opportunity to draw the weapon.</p>
			<p>He forced me back and around the room until he stood between me and the doorway, and then, having me where no chance for escape remained, he set to work to finish me with dispatch. The duel, as far as I was concerned, was fought wholly on the defensive. So swift and persistent was his attack that I could only defend myself, and not once in the first two minutes of the encounter did I aim a single blow at him.</p>
			<p>I wondered what had become of the men who had accompanied me; but pride would not permit me to call upon them for help nor did I learn until later that it would have availed me nothing, since they were having all that they could attend to in repelling the attack of several officers who had run up from below immediately behind them.</p>
			<p>The teeth of my antagonist were bared in a grim and ferocious smile, as he battered relentlessly at my guard, as though he already sensed victory and was gloating in anticipation. The clanging of steel on steel now drowned all sounds from beyond the four walls of the cabin where we fought; I could not tell if fighting were continuing in other parts of the ship, nor, if it were, whether it were going in our favor or against us. I realized that I <i>must</i> know these things, that I was responsible for whatever took place aboard the <i>Sovong</i>, and that I must get out of that cabin and lead my men either in victory or defeat.</p>
			<p>Such thoughts made my position even more impossible than as though only my life were at stake and drove me to attempt heroic measures for releasing myself from my predicament and my peril. I must destroy my adversary, and I must do so at once!</p>
			<p>He had me now with my back almost against the wall. Already his point had touched me upon the cheek once and twice upon the body, and though the wounds were but scratches, I was covered with blood. Now he leaped upon me in a frenzy of determination to have done with me instantly, but this time I did not fall back. I parried his cut, so that his sword passed to the right of my body which was now close to his; and then I drew back my point, and, before he could recover himself, drove it through his heart.</p>
			<p>As he sagged to the floor, I jerked my sword from his body and ran from his cabin. The entire episode had required but a few minutes, though it had seemed much longer to me, yet in that brief time much had occurred on the decks and in the cabins of the <i>Sovong</i>. The upper decks were cleared of living enemies; one of my own men was at the wheel, another at the controls; there was still fighting on the main deck where some of the <i>Sovong</i>’s officers were making a desperate last stand with a handful of their men. But by the time I reached the scene of the battle, it was over; the officers, assured by Kamlot that their lives would be spared, had surrendered—the <i>Sovong</i> was ours. The <i>Sofal</i> had taken her first prize!</p>
			<p>As I sprang into the midst of the excited warriors on the main deck, I must have presented a sorry spectacle, bleeding, as I was, from my three wounds; but my men greeted me with loud cheers. I learned later that my absence from the fighting on the main deck had been noticed and had made a poor impression on my men, but when they saw me return bearing the scars of combat, my place in their esteem was secured. Those three little scratches proved of great value to me, but they were as nothing in comparison with the psychological effect produced by the wholly disproportionate amount of blood they had spilled upon my naked hide.</p>
			<p>We now quickly rounded up our prisoners and disarmed them. Kamlot took a detachment of men and released the Vepajan captives whom he transferred at once to the <i>Sofal</i>. They were nearly all women, but I did not see them as they were taken from the ship, being engaged with other matters. I could imagine, though, the joy in the hearts of Kamlot and Duare at this reunion, which the latter at least had probably never even dared to hope for.</p>
			<p>Rapidly we transferred all of the small arms of the <i>Sovong</i> to the <i>Sofal</i>, leaving only sufficient to equip the officers of the ill-starred vessel. This work was intrusted to Kiron and was carried out by our own men, while Gamfor, with a contingent of our new-made prisoners, carried all of the <i>Sovong</i>’s surplus provisions aboard our own ship. This done, I ordered all the <i>Sovong</i>’s guns thrown overboard—by that much at least I would cripple the power of Thora. The last act in this drama of the sea was to march our one hundred imprisoned malcontents from the <i>Sofal</i> to the <i>Sovong</i> and present them to the latters’ new commander with my compliments. He did not seem greatly pleased, however, nor could I blame him. Neither were the prisoners pleased. Many of them begged me to take them back aboard the <i>Sofal</i>; but I already had more men than I felt were needed to navigate and defend the ship; and each of the prisoners had been reported as having expressed disapproval of some part or all of our plan; so that I, who must have absolute loyalty and coöperation, considered them valueless to me.</p>
			<p>Kodj, strange to say, was the most persistent. He almost went on his knees as he pleaded with me to permit him to remain with the <i>Sofal</i>, and he promised me such loyalty as man had never known before; but I had had enough of Kodj and told him so. Then, when he found that I could not be moved, he turned upon me, swearing by all his ancestors that he would get even with me yet, even though it took a thousand years.</p>
			<p>Returning to the deck of the <i>Sofal</i>, I ordered the grappling hooks cast off; and presently the two ships were under way again, the <i>Sovong</i> proceeding toward the Thoran port that was her destination, the <i>Sofal</i> back toward Vepaja. Now, for the first time, I had opportunity to inquire into our losses and found that we had suffered four killed and twenty-one wounded, the casualties among the crew of the <i>Sovong</i> having been much higher.</p>
			<p>For the greater part of the remainder of the day I was busy with my officers organizing the personnel of the <i>Sofal</i> and systematizing the activities of this new and unfamiliar venture, in which work Kiron and Gamfor were of inestimable value; and it was not until late in the afternoon that I had an opportunity to inquire into the welfare of the rescued Vepajan captives. When I asked Kamlot about them, he said that they were none the worse for their captivity aboard the <i>Sovong</i>.</p>
			<p>“You see, these raiding parties have orders to bring the women to Thora unharmed and in good condition,” he explained. “They are destined for more important persons than ships’ officers, and that is their safeguard.</p>
			<p>“However, Duare said that notwithstanding this, the captain made advances to her. I wish I might have known it while I was still aboard the <i>Sovong</i>, that I might have killed him for his presumption.” Kamlot’s tone was bitter and he showed signs of unusual excitement.</p>
			<p>“Let your mind rest at ease,” I begged him; “Duare has been avenged.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“I killed the captain myself,” I explained.</p>
			<p>He clapped a hand upon my shoulder, his eyes alight with pleasure. “Again you have won the undying gratitude of Vepaja,” he cried. “I wish that it might have been my good fortune to have killed the beast and thus wiped out the insult upon Vepaja, but if I could not be the one, then I am glad that it was you, Carson, rather than another.”</p>
			<p>I thought that he took the matter rather seriously and was placing too much importance upon the action of the <i>Sovong</i>’s captain, since it had resulted in no harm to the girl; but then, of course, I realized that love plays strange tricks upon a man’s mental processes, so that an affront to a mistress might be magnified to the proportions of a national calamity.</p>
			<p>“Well, it is all over now,” I said, “and your sweetheart has been returned to you safe and sound.”</p>
			<p>At that he looked horrified. “My sweetheart!” he exclaimed. “In the name of the ancestors of all the jongs! Do you mean to tell me that you do not know who Duare is?”</p>
			<p>“I thought of course that she was the girl you loved,” I confessed. “Who is she?”</p>
			<p>“Of course I love her,” he explained; “all Vepaja loves her—she is the virgin daughter of a Vepajan jong!”</p>
			<p>Had he been announcing the presence of a goddess on shipboard, his tone could have been no more reverential and awed. I endeavored to appear more impressed than I was, lest I offend him.</p>
			<p>“Had she been the woman of your choice,” I said, “I should have been even more pleased to have had a part in her rescue than had she been the daughter of a dozen jongs.”</p>
			<p>“That is nice of you,” he replied, “but do not let other Vepajans hear you say such things. You have told me of the divinities of that strange world from which you come; the persons of the jong and his children are similarly sacred to us.”</p>
			<p>“Then, of course, they shall be sacred to me,” I assured him.</p>
			<p>“By the way, I have word for you that should please you—a Vepajan would consider it a high honor. Duare desires to see you, that she may thank you personally. It is irregular, of course; but then circumstances have rendered strict adherence to the etiquette and customs of our country impracticable, if not impossible. Several hundred men already have looked upon her, many have spoken to her, and nearly all of them were enemies; so it can do no harm if she sees and speaks with her defenders and her friends.”</p>
			<p>I did not understand what he was driving at, but I assented to what he had said and told him that I would pay my respects to the princess before the day was over.</p>
			<p>I was very busy; and, if the truth must be told, I was not particularly excited about visiting the princess. In fact, I rather dreaded it, for I am not particularly keen about fawning and kotowing to royalty or anything else; but I decided that out of respect for Kamlot’s feelings I must get the thing over as soon as possible, and after he had left to attend to some duty, I made my way to the quarters allotted to Duare on the second deck.</p>
			<p>The Amtorians do not knock on a door—they whistle. It is rather an improvement, I think, upon our custom. One has one’s own distinctive whistle. Some of them are quite elaborate airs. One soon learns to recognize the signals of one’s friends. A knock merely informs you that some one wishes to enter; a whistle tells you the same thing and also reveals the identity of your caller.</p>
			<p>My signal, which is very simple, consists of two short low notes followed by a higher longer note; and as I stood before the door of Duare and sounded this, my mind was not upon the princess within but upon another girl far away in the tree city of Kooaad, in Vepaja. She was often in my mind—the girl whom I had glimpsed but twice, to whom I had spoken but once and that time to avow a love that had enveloped me as completely, spontaneously, and irrevocably as would death upon some future day.</p>
			<p>In response to my signal a soft, feminine voice bade me enter. I stepped into the room and faced Duare. At sight of me her eyes went wide and a quick flush mounted her cheeks. “You!” she exclaimed.</p>
			<p>I was equally dumfounded—she was the girl from the garden of the jong!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
