<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 id="c13">
				<span class="h2line1">XIII</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="h2line2">CATASTROPHE</span>
			</h2>
			<p>At the same moment that the ongyan, Moosko, ordered his soldiers to repel any attempt to board his ship, her captain ordered full speed ahead and threw her helm to starboard. She veered away from us and leaped ahead in an effort to escape. Of course I could have sunk her, but her loot would have been of no value to me at the bottom of the sea; instead I directed the trumpeter at my side to sound full speed ahead to the officer in the tower, and the chase was on.</p>
			<p>The <i>Yan</i>, whose name was now discernible across her stern, was much faster than Kiron had led me to believe; but the <i>Sofal</i> was exceptionally speedy, and it soon became obvious to all that the other ship could not escape her. Slowly we regained the distance that we had lost in the first, unexpected spurt of the <i>Yan</i>; slowly but surely we were closing up on her. Then the captain of the <i>Yan</i> did just what I should have done had I been in his place; he kept the <i>Sofal</i> always directly astern of him and opened fire on us with his after tower gun and with a gun similarly placed in the stern on the lower deck. The maneuver was tactically faultless, since it greatly reduced the number of guns that we could bring into play without changing our course, and was the only one that might offer him any hope of escape.</p>
			<p>There was something eery in the sound of that first heavy Amtorian gun that I had heard. I saw nothing, neither smoke nor flame; there was only a loud staccato roar more reminiscent of machine gun fire than of any other sound. At first there was no other effect; then I saw a piece of our starboard rail go and two of my men fall to the deck.</p>
			<p>By this time our bow gun was in action. We were in the swell of the <i>Yan</i>’s wake, which made accurate firing difficult. The two ships were racing ahead at full speed; the prow of the <i>Sofal</i> was throwing white water and spume far to either side; the sea in the wake of the <i>Yan</i> was boiling, and a heavy swell that we were quartering kept the ships rolling. The thrill of the chase and of battle was in our blood, and above all was the venomous rattle of the big guns.</p>
			<p>I ran to the bow to direct the fire of the gun there, and a moment later we had the satisfaction of seeing the crew of one of the <i>Yan</i>’s guns crumple to the deck man by man, as our gunner got his sights on them and mowed them down.</p>
			<p>The <i>Sofal</i> was gaining rapidly upon the <i>Yan</i>, and our guns were concentrating on the tower gun and the tower of the enemy. The ongyan had long since disappeared from the upper deck, having doubtlessly sought safety in a less exposed part of the ship, and in fact there were only two men left alive upon the tower deck where he had stood beside the captain; these were two of the crew of the gun that was giving us most trouble.</p>
			<p>I did not understand at the time why the guns of neither ship were more effective. I knew that the T-ray was supposedly highly destructive, and so I could not understand why neither ship had been demolished or sunk; but that was because I had not yet learned that all the vital parts of the ships were protected by a thin armor of the same metal of which the large guns were composed, the only substance at all impervious to the T-ray. Had this not been true, our fire would have long since put the <i>Yan</i> out of commission, as our T-rays, directed upon her after tower gun, would have passed on through the tower, killing the men at the controls and destroying the controls themselves. Eventually this would have happened, but it would have been necessary first to have destroyed the protective armor of the tower.</p>
			<p>At last we succeeded in silencing the remaining gun, but if we were to draw up alongside the <i>Yan</i> we must expose ourselves to the fire of other guns located on her main deck and the forward end of the tower. We had already suffered some losses, and I knew that we must certainly expect a great many more if we put ourselves in range of those other guns; but there seemed no other alternative than to abandon the chase entirely, and that I had no mind to do.</p>
			<p>Giving orders to draw up along her port side, I directed the fire of the bow gun along her rail where it would rake her port guns one by one as we moved up on her, and gave orders that each of our starboard guns in succession should open fire similarly as they came within range of the <i>Yan</i>’s guns. Thus we kept a steady and continuous fire streaming upon the unhappy craft as we drew alongside her and closed up the distance between us.</p>
			<p>We had suffered a number of casualties, but our losses were nothing compared to those of the <i>Yan</i>, whose decks were now strewn with dead and dying men. Her plight was hopeless, and her commander must at last have realized it, for now he gave the signal of surrender and stopped his engines. A few minutes later we were alongside and our boarding party had clambered over her rail.</p>
			<p>As Kamlot and I stood watching these men who were being led by Kiron to take possession of the prize and bring certain prisoners aboard the <i>Sofal</i>, I could not but speculate upon what their answer was to be to my challenge for leadership. I knew that their freedom from the constant menace of their tyrannical masters was so new to them that they might well be expected to commit excesses, and I dreaded the result, for I had determined to make an example of any men who disobeyed me, though I fell in the attempt. I saw the majority of them spread over the deck under the command of the great Zog, while Kiron led a smaller detachment to the upper decks in search of the captain and the ongyan.</p>
			<p>Fully five minutes must have elapsed before I saw my lieutenant emerge from the tower of the <i>Yan</i> with his two prisoners. He conducted them down the companionway and across the main deck toward the <i>Sofal</i>, while a hundred members of my pirate band watched them in silence. Not a hand was raised against them as they passed.</p>
			<p>Kamlot breathed a sigh of relief as the two men clambered over the rail of the <i>Sofal</i> and approached us. “I think that our lives hung in the balance then, quite as much as theirs,” he said, and I agreed with him, for if my men had started killing aboard the <i>Yan</i> in defiance of my orders, they would have had to kill me and those loyal to me to protect their own lives.</p>
			<p>The ongyan was still blustering when they were halted in front of me, but the captain was awed. There was something about the whole incident that mystified him, and when he got close enough to me to see the color of my hair and eyes, I could see that he was dumfounded.</p>
			<p>“This is an outrage,” shouted Moosko, the ongyan. “I will see that every last man of you is destroyed for this.” He was trembling, and purple with rage.</p>
			<p>“See that he does not speak again unless he is spoken to,” I instructed Kiron, and then I turned to the captain. “As soon as we have taken what we wish from your ship,” I told him, “you will be free to continue your voyage. I am sorry that you did not see fit to obey me when I ordered you to stop for boarding; it would have saved many lives. The next time you are ordered to lay to by the <i>Sofal</i>, do so; and when you return to your country, advise other shipmasters that the <i>Sofal</i> is abroad and that she is to be obeyed.”</p>
			<p>“Do you mind telling me,” he asked, “who you are and under what flag you sail?”</p>
			<p>“For the moment I am a Vepajan,” I replied, “but we sail under our own flag. No country is responsible for what we do, nor are we responsible to any country.”</p>
			<p>Pressing the crew of the <i>Yan</i> into service, Kamlot, Kiron, Gamfor, and Zog had all her weapons, such of her provisions as we wished, and the most valuable and least bulky portion of her cargo transferred to the <i>Sofal</i> before dark. We then threw her guns overboard and let her proceed upon her way.</p>
			<p>Moosko I retained as a hostage in the event that we should ever need one; he was being held under guard on the main deck until I could determine just what to do with him.</p>
			<p>The Vepajan women captives we had rescued from the <i>Sovong</i>, together with our own officers who were also quartered on the second deck, left me no vacant cabin in which to put Moosko, and I did not wish to confine him below deck in the hole reserved for common prisoners.</p>
			<p>I chanced to mention the matter to Kamlot in the presence of Vilor, when the latter immediately suggested that he would share his own small cabin with Moosko and be responsible for him. As this seemed an easy solution of the problem, I ordered Moosko turned over to Vilor, who took him at once to his cabin.</p>
			<p>The pursuit of the <i>Yan</i> had taken us off our course, and now, as we headed once more toward Vepaja, a dark land mass was dimly visible to starboard. I could not but wonder what mysteries lay beyond that shadowy coast line, what strange beasts and men inhabited that <i>terra incognita</i> that stretched away into Strabol and the unexplored equatorial regions of Venus. To partially satisfy my curiosity, I went to the chart room, and after determining our position as accurately as I could by dead reckoning, I discovered that we were off the shore of Noobol. I remembered having heard Danus mention this country, but I could not recall what he had told me about it.</p>
			<p>Lured by imaginings, I went out onto the tower deck and stood alone, looking out across the faintly illuminated nocturnal waters of Amtor toward mysterious Noobol. The wind had risen to almost the proportions of a gale, the first that I had encountered since my coming to the Shepherd’s Star; heavy seas were commencing to run, but I had every confidence in the ship and in the ability of my officers to navigate her under any circumstances; so I was not perturbed by the increasing violence of the storm. It occurred to me though that the women aboard might be frightened, and my thoughts, which were seldom absent from her for long, returned to Duare. Perhaps she was frightened!</p>
			<p>Even no excuse is a good excuse to the man who wishes to see the object of his infatuation; but now I prided myself that I had a real reason for seeing her and one that she herself must appreciate, since it was prompted by solicitude for her welfare. And so I went down the companionway to the second deck with the intention of whistling before the door of Duare; but as I had to pass directly by Vilor’s cabin, I thought that I would take the opportunity to look in on my prisoner.</p>
			<p>There was a moment’s silence following my signal, and then Vilor bade me enter. As I stepped into the cabin, I was surprised to see an angan sitting there with Moosko and Vilor. Vilor’s embarrassment was obvious; Moosko appeared ill at ease and the birdman frightened. That they were disconcerted did not surprise me, for it is not customary for members of the superior race to fraternize with klangan socially. But if they were embarrassed, I was not. I was more inclined to be angry. The position of the Vepajans aboard the <i>Sofal</i> was a delicate one. We were few in numbers, and our ascendency depended wholly upon the respect we engendered and maintained in the minds of the Thorans, who constituted the majority of our company, and who looked up to the Vepajans as their superiors despite the efforts of their leaders to convince them of the equality of all men.</p>
			<p>“Your quarters are forward,” I said to the angan; “you do not belong here.”</p>
			<p>“It is not his fault,” said Vilor, as the birdman rose to leave the cabin. “Moosko, strange as it may seem, had never seen an angan; and I fetched this fellow here merely to satisfy his curiosity. I am sorry if I did wrong.”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” I said, “that puts a slightly different aspect on the matter, but I think it will be better if the prisoner inspects the klangan on deck where they belong. He has my permission to do so tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>The angan departed, I exchanged a few more words with Vilor, and then I left him with his prisoner and turned toward the after cabin where Duare was quartered, the episode that had just occurred fading from my mind almost immediately, to be replaced by far more pleasant thoughts.</p>
			<p>There was a light in Duare’s cabin as I whistled before her door, wondering if she would invite me in or ignore my presence. For a time there was no response to my signal, and I had about determined that she would not see me, when I heard her soft, low voice inviting me to enter.</p>
			<p>“You are persistent,” she said, but there was less anger in her voice than when last she had spoken to me.</p>
			<p>“I came to ask if the storm has frightened you and to assure you that there is no danger.”</p>
			<p>“I am not afraid,” she replied. “Was that all that you wished to say?”</p>
			<p>It sounded very much like a dismissal. “No,” I assured her, “nor did I come solely for the purpose of saying it.”</p>
			<p>She raised her eyebrows. “What else could you have to say to me—that you have not already said?”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps I wished to repeat,” I suggested.</p>
			<p>“You must not!” she cried.</p>
			<p>I came closer to her. “Look at me, Duare; look me in the eyes and tell me that you do not like to hear me tell you that I love you!”</p>
			<p>Her eyes fell. “I must not listen!” she whispered and rose as though to leave the room.</p>
			<p>I was mad with love for her; her near presence sent the hot blood boiling through my veins; I seized her in my arms and drew her to me; before she could prevent it, I covered her lips with mine. Then she partially tore away from me, and I saw a dagger gleaming in her hand.</p>
			<p>“You are right,” I said. “Strike! I have done an unforgivable thing. My only excuse is my great love for you; it swept away reason and honor.”</p>
			<p>Her dagger hand dropped to her side. “I cannot,” she sobbed, and, turning, fled from the room.</p>
			<p>I went back to my own cabin, cursing myself for a beast and a cad. I could not understand how it had been possible for me to have committed such an unpardonable act. I reviled myself, and at the same time the memory of that soft body crushed against mine and those perfect lips against my lips suffused me with a warm glow of contentment that seemed far removed from repentance.</p>
			<p>I lay awake for a long time after I went to bed, thinking of Duare, recalling all that had ever passed between us. I found a hidden meaning in her cry, “I must not listen!” I rejoiced in the facts that once she had refused to consign me to death at the hands of others and that again she had refused to kill me herself. Her “I cannot” rang in my ears almost like an avowal of love. My better judgment told that I was quite mad, but I found joy in hugging my madness to me.</p>
			<p>The storm increased to such terrific fury during the night that the screeching of the wind and the wild plunging of the <i>Sofal</i> awakened me just before dawn. Arising immediately, I went on deck, where the wind almost carried me away. Great waves lifted the <i>Sofal</i> on high, only to plunge her the next moment into watery abysses. The ship was pitching violently; occasionally a huge wave broke across her bow and flooded the main deck; across her starboard quarter loomed a great land mass that seemed perilously close. The situation appeared fraught with danger.</p>
			<p>I entered the control room and found both Honan and Gamfor with the helmsman. They were worried because of our proximity to land. Should either the engines or the steering device fail, we must inevitably be driven ashore. I told them to remain where they were, and then I went down to the second deck house to arouse Kiron, Kamlot, and Zog.</p>
			<p>As I turned aft from the foot of the companionway on the second deck, I noticed that the door of Vilor’s cabin was swinging open and closing again with each roll of the vessel; but I gave the matter no particular thought at the time and passed on to awaken my other lieutenants. Having done so, I kept on to Duare’s cabin, fearing that, if awake, she might be frightened by the rolling of the ship and the shrieking of the wind. To my surprise, I found her door swinging on its hinges.</p>
			<p>Something, I do not know what, aroused my suspicion that all was not right far more definitely than the rather unimportant fact that the door to her outer cabin was unlatched. Stepping quickly inside, I uncovered the light and glanced quickly about the room. There was nothing amiss except, perhaps, the fact that the door to the inner cabin where she slept was also open and swinging on its hinges. I was sure that no one could be sleeping in there while both those doors were swinging and banging. It was possible, of course, that Duare was too frightened to get up and close them.</p>
			<p>I stepped to the inner doorway and called her name aloud. There was no reply. I called again, louder; again, silence was my only answer. Now I was definitely perturbed. Stepping into the room, I uncovered the light and looked at the bed. It was empty—Duare was not there! But in the far corner of the cabin lay the body of the man who had stood guard outside her door.</p>
			<p>Throwing conventions overboard, I hastened to each of the adjoining cabins where the rest of the Vepajan women were quartered. All were there except Duare. They had not seen her; they did not know where she was. Frantic from apprehension, I ran back to Kamlot’s cabin and acquainted him with my tragic discovery. He was stunned.</p>
			<p>“She must be on board,” he cried. “Where else can she be?”</p>
			<p>“I know she <i>must</i> be,” I replied, “but something tells me she is not. We must search the ship at once—from stem to stern.”</p>
			<p>Zog and Kiron were emerging from their cabins as I came from Kamlot’s. I told them of my discovery and ordered the search commenced; then I hailed a member of the watch and sent him to the crow’s nest to question the lookout. I wanted to know whether he had seen anything unusual transpiring on the ship during his watch, for from his lofty perch he could overlook the entire vessel.</p>
			<p>“Muster every man,” I told Kamlot; “account for every human being on board; search every inch of the ship.”</p>
			<p>As the men left to obey my instructions, I recalled the coincidence of the two cabin doors swinging wide—Duare’s and Vilor’s. I could not imagine what relation either fact had to the other, but I was investigating everything, whether it was of a suspicious nature or not; so I ran quickly to Vilor’s cabin, and the moment that I uncovered the light I saw that both Vilor and Moosko were missing. But where were they? No man could have left the <i>Sofal</i> in that storm and lived, even could he have launched a boat, which would have been impossible of accomplishment, even in fair weather, without detection.</p>
			<p>Coming from Vilor’s cabin, I summoned a sailor and dispatched him to inform Kamlot that Vilor and Moosko were missing from their cabin and direct him to send them to me as soon as he located them; then I returned to the quarters of the Vepajan women for the purpose of questioning them more carefully.</p>
			<p>I was puzzled by the disappearance of Moosko and Vilor, which, taken in conjunction with the absence of Duare from her cabin, constituted a mystery of major proportions; and I was trying to discover some link of circumstance that might point a connection between the two occurrences, when I suddenly recalled Vilor’s insistence that he be permitted to guard Duare. Here was the first, faint suggestion of a connecting link. However, it seemed to lead nowhere. These three people had disappeared from their cabins, yet reason assured me that they would be found in a short time, since it was impossible for them to leave the ship, unless—</p>
			<p>It was that little word “unless” that terrified me most of all. Since I had discovered that Duare was not in her cabin, a numbing fear had assailed me that, considering herself dishonored by my avowal of love, she had hurled herself overboard. Of what value now the fact that I constantly upbraided myself for my lack of consideration and control? Of what weight my vain regrets?</p>
			<p>Yet now I saw a tiny ray of hope. If the absence of Vilor and Moosko from their cabin and Duare from hers were more than a coincidence, then it were safe to assume that they were together and ridiculous to believe that all three had leaped overboard.</p>
			<p>With these conflicting fears and hopes whirling through my brain, I came to the quarters of the Vepajan women, which I was about to enter when the sailor I had sent to question the lookout in the crow’s nest came running toward me in a state of evident excitement.</p>
			<p>“Well,” I demanded, as, breathless, he halted before me, “what did the lookout have to say?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing, my captain,” replied the man, his speech retarded by excitement and exertion.</p>
			<p>“Nothing! and why not?” I snapped.</p>
			<p>“The lookout is dead, my captain,” gasped the sailor.</p>
			<p>“Dead!”</p>
			<p>“Murdered.”</p>
			<p>“How?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“A sword had been run through his body—from behind, I think. He lay upon his face.”</p>
			<p>“Go at once and inform Kamlot; tell him to replace the lookout and investigate his death, then to report to me.”</p>
			<p>Shaken by this ominous news, I entered the quarters of the women. They were huddled together in one cabin, pale and frightened, but outwardly calm.</p>
			<p>“Have you found Duare?” one of them asked immediately.</p>
			<p>“No,” I replied, “but I have discovered another mystery—the ongyan, Moosko, is missing and with him the Vepajan, Vilor.”</p>
			<p>“Vepajan!” exclaimed Byea, the woman who had questioned me concerning Duare. “Vilor is no Vepajan.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?” I demanded. “If he is not a Vepajan, what is he?”</p>
			<p>“He is a Thoran spy,” she replied. “He was sent to Vepaja long ago to steal the secret of the longevity serum, and when we were captured the klangan took him, also, by mistake. We learned this, little by little, aboard the <i>Sovong</i>.”</p>
			<p>“But why was I not informed when he was brought aboard?” I demanded.</p>
			<p>“We supposed that everyone knew it,” explained Byea, “and thought that Vilor was transferred to the <i>Sofal</i> as a prisoner.”</p>
			<p>Another link in the chain of accumulating evidence! Yet I was as far as ever from knowing where either end of the chain lay.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
